one of the first owners of the Chevrolet
Volt in the Midwest state of Illinois
was cars.com which purchased the new
$40,000 electric car to test its
performance we were among the first
buyers in the country even though
Chicago is not a launch market and we
drove them through the winter tested
them out we've actually had them through
the summer as well and gotten a pretty
good feel for them cars.com executive
editor Joe Weisenfeld er says the
company also has the distinction of
being one of the first owners to crash
the Volt you know there was a lot of
interest around that was one of the
first airbag deployments in a Volt out
on the road so we are pioneers in that
regard fully repaired the car was back
on the road several weeks later
Weisenfeld ER says there have not been
any problems since but that is not the
case with a Chevrolet Volt crash tested
by the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration the vote that was crashed
by NHTSA led to a five star crash test
rating it was three weeks later that the
battery caught fire Weisenfeld er says
GM believes the solution to the problem
is to discharge the lithium-ion battery
after a collision but he says it's been
hard to learn more about the extent of
the problem we have not had a whole lot
of back-and-forth with GM unfortunately
NHTSA also is not discussing it you know
we asked are they also testing batteries
from other cars like the leaf they won't
say they won't say they won't say the
lack of information so far is fueling
speculation about the safety of battery
powered vehicles Weisenfeld er says that
uncertainty could hurt the already
underperforming sales of the Chevrolet
Volt you hear fire and car course that's
bad this testing could prove anything
you know we're not going to jump to
conclusions on safety or lack of safety
but on the other hand GM is trying to do
everything right trying to look good you
know say we're a different company than
we used to be and by doing that by
offering you know loaner cars and
offering to buy the cars back they
actually I think also
make it seem like a larger problem than
it might be Weisenfeld er points out
there is no evidence to suggest the Volt
or any current electric powered vehicle
is any less safe than one powered by a
combustion engine Argonne National
Laboratories Transportation Research
director Don Hillebrand agrees electrics
in general tend to be have pure failure
modes than combustion or other vehicles
some of the chemistry in the battery the
Volt uses was invented at Argonne and
Hill a brand's team is currently testing
the vehicle's fuel efficiency he would
not comment directly about the NHTSA
investigation but says the end results
could ultimately help make the Volt a
better vehicle and I don't test safety
in vehicles but I test other aspects of
the vehicles and we test them to find
out what are they gonna do when you push
them to the edge and we need to know
that that's how you make them better
General Motors has sold about six
thousand Chevrolet Volts this year Kane
Farabaugh VOA news Chicago Illinois